README.md, before:

# Vue JS Froala WYSIWYG Editor

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vue-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/vue-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/vue-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-froala-wysiwyg)

>vue-froala-wyswiyg provides Vue bindings to the Froala WYSIWYG editor VERSION 2.

## Compatibility

- v1 later `@legacy`
  - Vue.js 1.x
- v2 later
  - Vue.js 2.x

## Installation

Install `vue-froala-wysiwyg` from `npm`

```bash
npm install vue-froala-wysiwyg --save
```



## Integration

#### 1. Require and use Froala Editor component inside your application.

#### main.js file:
```javascript
...

// Require Froala Editor js file.
require('froala-editor/js/froala_editor.pkgd.min.js')

// Require Froala Editor css files.
require('froala-editor/css/froala_editor.pkgd.min.css')
require('font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css')
require('froala-editor/css/froala_style.min.css')

// Import and use Vue Froala lib.
import VueFroala from 'vue-froala-wysiwyg'
Vue.use(VueFroala)

...
```

#### App.vue file:
```javascript
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <froala :tag="'textarea'" :config="config" v-model="model"></froala>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import VueFroala from 'vue-froala-wysiwyg';

export default {
  name: 'app',
  data () {
    return {
      config: {
        events: {
          'froalaEditor.initialized': function () {
            console.log('initialized')
          }
        }
      },
      model: 'Edit Your Content Here!'
    }
  }
}
</script>
```



#### 2. Make sure you have the right Webpack settings for loading the CSS files, Font Awesome and jQuery.

```javascript
var webpack = require('webpack')
var path = require('path')

module.exports = {
  module: {
    loaders: [

      // ...

      // Css loader.
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        loader: 'vue-style-loader!css-loader'
      },

      // Font awesome loader.
      {
        test: /\.(woff2?|eot|ttf|otf)(\?.*)?$/,
        loader: 'url',
        query: {
          limit: 10000,
          name: path.posix.join('path/to/yours/assets/directory', 'fonts/[name].[hash:7].[ext]')
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  vue: {
    loaders: {

      // ...

      // Css loader for Webpack 1.x .
      css: 'vue-style-loader!css-loader'
    }
  },
  plugins: [

    // ...

    // Jquery loader plugin.
    new webpack.ProvidePlugin({
      $: "jquery",
      jQuery: "jquery"
    })
  ]
})
```



## Usage

### Initialize

```javascript
// If model is initialized, 'Init text' text child will be overwritten.
<froala :tag="'textarea'" :config="config" v-model="model">Init text</froala>
```

**:tag** attr is used to tell on which tag the editor is initialized.

There are special tags: **a**, **button**, **img**, **input**.



### Options

You can pass editor options as component attribute (optional).

`:config="config"`

You can pass any existing Froala option. Consult the [Froala documentation](https://www.froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/options) to view the list of all the available options:

```jon
config: {
  placeholderText: 'Edit Your Content Here!',
  charCounterCount: false
}
```

Aditional option is used:
* **immediateVueModelUpdate**: (default: false) This option updates the Vue model as soon as a key is released in the editor. Note that it may affect performances.

### Events and Methods

Events can be passed in with the options, with a key events and object where the key is the event name and the value is the callback function.

```javascript
config: {
  placeholder: "Edit Me",
  events : {
    'froalaEditor.focus' : function(e, editor) {
      console.log(editor.selection.get());
    }
  }
}
```

Using the editor instance from the arguments of the callback you can call editor methods as described in the [method docs](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/methods).

Froala events are described in the [events docs](https://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/events).

### Model

The WYSIWYG HTML editor content model. Two way binding is suported.

`v-model="model"`

Use the content in other places:

```javascript
<input v-model="model"/>
```

### Special tags
You can also use the editor on **img**, **button**, **input** and **a** tags:

```javascript
<froala :tag="img" v-model="imgModel"></froala>
```

The model must be an object containing the attributes for your special tags. Example:

```javascript
imgModel: {
  src: require('./image.jpg')
}
```

The model will change as the attributes change during usage.

* The model can contain a special attribute named **innerHTML** which inserts innerHTML in the element: If you are using 'button' tag, you can specify the button text like this:

```javascript
buttonModel: {
  innerHTML: 'Click Me'
}
```
As the button text is modified by the editor, the **innerHTML** attribute from buttonModel model will be modified too.

#### Specific option for special tags

* **vueIgnoreAttrs**: (default: null) This option is an array of attributes that you want to ignore when the editor updates the v-model:

 ```javascript
config: {
  vueIgnoreAttrs: ['class', 'id']
}
 ```



## Manual Instantiation

Gets the functionality to operate on the editor: create, destroy and get editor instance. Use it if you want to manually initialize the editor.

`:onManualControllerReady="initialize"`

```javascript
initialize: function(initControls) {
  this.initControls = initControls;
  this.deleteAll = () => {
      this.initControls.getEditor()('html.set', '');
      this.initControls.getEditor()('undo.reset');
      this.initControls.getEditor()('undo.saveStep');
  };
}
```

The object received by the function will contain the following methods:

- **initialize**: Call this method to initialize the Froala Editor
- **destroy**: Call this method to destroy the Froala Editor
- **getEditor**: Call this method to retrieve the editor that was created. This method will return *null* if the editor was not yet created




## Displaying HTML

To display content created with the froala editor use the `froalaView` component.

```javascript
<froala v-model="content"></froala>

<froalaView v-model="content"></froalaView>
```



## License

The `vue-froala-wyswiyg` project is under MIT license. However, in order to use Froala WYSIWYG HTML Editor plugin you should purchase a license for it.

Froala Editor has [3 different licenses](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/pricing) for commercial use.
For details please see [License Agreement](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/terms).



## Development environment setup

If you want to contribute to vue-froala-wyswiyg, you will first need to install the required tools to get the project going.

#### Prerequisites

* [Node Package Manager](https://npmjs.org/) (NPM)
* [Git](http://git-scm.com/)

#### Install dependencies

    $ npm install

#### Build

    $ npm run build

#### Run Demo

    $ npm run dev

Commit message:

Fixes froala-labs/froala-editor-js-2#2713

README.md, after:

# Vue JS Froala WYSIWYG Editor

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vue-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/vue-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/vue-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-froala-wysiwyg)

>vue-froala-wyswiyg provides Vue bindings to the Froala WYSIWYG editor VERSION 2.

## Compatibility

- v1 later `@legacy`
  - Vue.js 1.x
- v2 later
  - Vue.js 2.x

## Installation

### Use with Vue CLI

#### Generating simple webpack boilerplate with Vue-cli

*Note*: you can skip this part if you already have application generated.

```bash
npm install -g vue-cli
vue init webpack-simple my-project
cd my-project
npm install
npm run dev
```

#### Add vue-froala-wysiwyg
Install `vue-froala-wysiwyg` from `npm`

```bash
npm install vue-froala-wysiwyg --save
```



## Integration

#### 1. Require and use Froala Editor component inside your application.

#### main.js file:
```javascript
...

// Require Froala Editor js file.
require('froala-editor/js/froala_editor.pkgd.min.js')

// Require Froala Editor css files.
require('froala-editor/css/froala_editor.pkgd.min.css')
require('font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css')
require('froala-editor/css/froala_style.min.css')

// Import and use Vue Froala lib.
import VueFroala from 'vue-froala-wysiwyg'
Vue.use(VueFroala)

...
```

#### App.vue file:
```javascript
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <froala :tag="'textarea'" :config="config" v-model="model"></froala>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import VueFroala from 'vue-froala-wysiwyg';

export default {
  name: 'app',
  data () {
    return {
      config: {
        events: {
          'froalaEditor.initialized': function () {
            console.log('initialized')
          }
        }
      },
      model: 'Edit Your Content Here!'
    }
  }
}
</script>
```



#### 2. Make sure you have the right Webpack settings for loading the CSS files, Font Awesome and jQuery.

*Note*: you can skip this part if you created your application using boiler plate generation code stated above.

```javascript
var webpack = require('webpack')
var path = require('path')

module.exports = {
  module: {
    loaders: [

      // ...

      // Css loader.
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        loader: 'vue-style-loader!css-loader'
      },

      // Font awesome loader.
      {
        test: /\.(woff2?|eot|ttf|otf)(\?.*)?$/,
        loader: 'url',
        query: {
          limit: 10000,
          name: path.posix.join('path/to/yours/assets/directory', 'fonts/[name].[hash:7].[ext]')
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  vue: {
    loaders: {

      // ...

      // Css loader for Webpack 1.x .
      css: 'vue-style-loader!css-loader'
    }
  },
  plugins: [

    // ...

    // Jquery loader plugin.
    new webpack.ProvidePlugin({
      $: "jquery",
      jQuery: "jquery"
    })
  ]
})
```



## Usage

### Initialize

```javascript
// If model is initialized, 'Init text' text child will be overwritten.
<froala :tag="'textarea'" :config="config" v-model="model">Init text</froala>
```

**:tag** attr is used to tell on which tag the editor is initialized.

There are special tags: **a**, **button**, **img**, **input**.



### Options

You can pass editor options as component attribute (optional).

`:config="config"`

You can pass any existing Froala option. Consult the [Froala documentation](https://www.froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/options) to view the list of all the available options:

```jon
config: {
  placeholderText: 'Edit Your Content Here!',
  charCounterCount: false
}
```

Aditional option is used:
* **immediateVueModelUpdate**: (default: false) This option updates the Vue model as soon as a key is released in the editor. Note that it may affect performances.

### Events and Methods

Events can be passed in with the options, with a key events and object where the key is the event name and the value is the callback function.

```javascript
config: {
  placeholder: "Edit Me",
  events : {
    'froalaEditor.focus' : function(e, editor) {
      console.log(editor.selection.get());
    }
  }
}
```

Using the editor instance from the arguments of the callback you can call editor methods as described in the [method docs](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/methods).

Froala events are described in the [events docs](https://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/events).

### Model

The WYSIWYG HTML editor content model. Two way binding is suported.

`v-model="model"`

Use the content in other places:

```javascript
<input v-model="model"/>
```

### Special tags
You can also use the editor on **img**, **button**, **input** and **a** tags:

```javascript
<froala :tag="img" v-model="imgModel"></froala>
```

The model must be an object containing the attributes for your special tags. Example:

```javascript
imgModel: {
  src: require('./image.jpg')
}
```

The model will change as the attributes change during usage.

* The model can contain a special attribute named **innerHTML** which inserts innerHTML in the element: If you are using 'button' tag, you can specify the button text like this:

```javascript
buttonModel: {
  innerHTML: 'Click Me'
}
```
As the button text is modified by the editor, the **innerHTML** attribute from buttonModel model will be modified too.

#### Specific option for special tags

* **vueIgnoreAttrs**: (default: null) This option is an array of attributes that you want to ignore when the editor updates the v-model:

 ```javascript
config: {
  vueIgnoreAttrs: ['class', 'id']
}
 ```



## Manual Instantiation

Gets the functionality to operate on the editor: create, destroy and get editor instance. Use it if you want to manually initialize the editor.

`:onManualControllerReady="initialize"`

```javascript
initialize: function(initControls) {
  this.initControls = initControls;
  this.deleteAll = () => {
      this.initControls.getEditor()('html.set', '');
      this.initControls.getEditor()('undo.reset');
      this.initControls.getEditor()('undo.saveStep');
  };
}
```

The object received by the function will contain the following methods:

- **initialize**: Call this method to initialize the Froala Editor
- **destroy**: Call this method to destroy the Froala Editor
- **getEditor**: Call this method to retrieve the editor that was created. This method will return *null* if the editor was not yet created




## Displaying HTML

To display content created with the froala editor use the `froalaView` component.

```javascript
<froala v-model="content"></froala>

<froalaView v-model="content"></froalaView>
```



## License

The `vue-froala-wyswiyg` project is under MIT license. However, in order to use Froala WYSIWYG HTML Editor plugin you should purchase a license for it.

Froala Editor has [3 different licenses](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/pricing) for commercial use.
For details please see [License Agreement](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/terms).



## Development environment setup

If you want to contribute to vue-froala-wyswiyg, you will first need to install the required tools to get the project going.

#### Prerequisites

* [Node Package Manager](https://npmjs.org/) (NPM)
* [Git](http://git-scm.com/)

#### Install dependencies

    $ npm install

#### Build

    $ npm run build

#### Run Demo

    $ npm run dev
